Foreign exchange Swap prediction (USA - YEN)

7 steps for this project.

1. Problem Statement
2. Data Collection
3. Data Cleaning
4. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
5. Feature Engineering
6. Modelling
7. Possible extension (NLP)


1. Problem Statement
The objective of a problem statement is to state the problem you are trying to solve clearly.

    1) Specific: The problem statement has to be detailed and specific to the problem you are solving.
        Collecting dataset for USD - YEN FX swap rate and predict the rate in the future using ML algorithm.
        Possibly LSTM but further research requires.

    2) Measurable: Are there any metrics you can track so that you can tell if it is successful at the end of the project?
        If the dataset is large enough to divide one for training and the other for back-testing then leave the later part of the
        dataset as a "answer sheet" to check how good my prediction is.
        If not, then need to wait for the data to be created and check.

    3) Action: What specific actions can you take to solve your problem?
        Need a sophisticated research for the suitable ML model for prediction. And make sure what I can IMPROVE from the last
        project, Tensorust and put that in accountable.(ARIMA)

    4) Relevant: There are multiple ways to solve a problem but focus on the most relevant method.

    5) Timebound: Have you added a time constraint to when your problem should be solved?
        Will finish this by Fall 2024. Before I apply for the grad school.



2. Data collection

Found this website.

https://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h10/hist/dat00_ja.htm

We will handle two datasets

JYP/USD
AUD/USD

CSV downloaded from the website.

3. Data Cleaning

The datasets are pretty clean and from trusty-worthy website.(The Federal Reserve System is the central banking system of the United States. It was created on December 23, 1913, with the enactment of the Federal Reserve Act, ..)
Just needed to handle few NAN value. In financial dataset, I think handling NAN/0 values are crucial since we do get actual 0 data from the market.
The idea that I came up with keep the previous value instead of keeping NAN value.

Thorough investigation needs to be done in order to spectate what actually happened, however realistically going through all the NAN values
from 1971 - 2024 is difficult which I came up with the idea above.



4. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
Here, I performed some plotting jobs with data manipulations. I want to do a few more steps to step up a hypothesis.
So far, I have plotted the day Rate of aud_usd fx rate and jyp_usd fx rate. And I extracted the mean of each month of a year
and then plotted it lastly, year mean as well.





